# 4W and 1H of calculator

WHAT ?

An electronic calculator is a small, portable, often inexpensive electronic device used to perform both basic and complex operations of arithmetic.
The simplest calculators can do only addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
More sophisticated calculators can handle exponential operations, roots, logarithms, trigonometric functions, and hyperbolic functions. Internally, some calculators actually perform all of these functions by repeated processes of addition.
WHEN ?

The first known tool used to aid arithmetic calculations was the abacus, devised by Sumerians and Egyptians before 2000 BC.
In 1642, the renaissance saw the invention of the mechanical calculator by the famous intellectual Blaise Pascal, a device that will eventually perform all four arithmetic operations without relying on human intelligence.
After that many scientist such as G.Poleni tried to make a programmable calculator and
at last they succeed.

WHY ?

The purpose of using calculator is to do correct calculations, and to do so efficiently.
It is clear that a calculator should relieve the user of the need to do mental operations and of the need to rely on papers, so far as possible.
WHERE ?

Scientific calculators are used widely in situations that require quick access to certain mathematical functions, especially those that were once looked up in mathematical tables, such as trigonometric functions or logarithms. They are also used for calculations of very large or very small numbers.
Many are sold into educational markets.
Some high-end models include features making it easier to translate a problem on a textbook page into calculator input.
HOW ?

Most calculators depend on integrated circuits, commonly known as chips. These circuits use transistors to add and subtract, as well as to perform computations on logarithms in order to accomplish multiplication, division and more complicated operations such as using exponents and finding square roots. Basically, the more transistors an integrated circuit has, the more advanced its functions may be. Most standard pocket calculators have identical, or very similar, integrated circuitry.
The chips inside a calculator work by reducing any information you give it to its binary equivalent.
